In this lecture, we take a look at pop ups and learn how to handle them using selenium.
So what are pop ups?
They are small Internet windows that pop up on your screen.
They are often used by advertisers to get your attention.
Although many browsers now block them with pop up blockers, many banking websites used to use them
for security reasons.
But it is quite rare these days.
Pop ups are also used to trick users into downloading viruses.
So how do we handle pop ups?
We need to use a driver to get window handles method to identify all of the open windows.
We then need to iterate through the windows to find the child window.
Once identified, we need to switch to the child window using the switch to and the Windows method.
Once focus has been shifted to the child window, we can then close it.
We then switched back to the main window.
So if you look to the diagram on the right hand side, selenium focus starts with the master window,
which is the main window.
The main screen for the main browser window.
Then when we click a pop up, a child window appears.
And so what we need to do is then shift focus from the master window to the child window.
And then once we finish through the child window, we switch back to the master window.
So in this lecture you're going to learn a number of new concepts, and it can be quite challenging
to understand it first.
But hopefully when I explain it, it will make more sense.
So let's try it out.
So before we begin, I'm going to take you through the test.
So I'm going to open up Chrome and go to automation tested no code UK.
I am going to click on the pop up alerts link which will take you to this page.
So we're going to be tested using this pop up.
And if I click on this button, you'll see that a pop up window appears.
So what we need to do is get selenium to go to this page and then we need to switch to this window in
order to interact with it.
So in our case, we're going to close it and then we're going to switch focus back to the main window.
So I'm going to close this for now and then minimize this.
And it's going to open up Eclipse and I'm simply going to copy and paste the class in the last lecture.
So I'm going to call this new class L 11 for lecture 11 and I'm going to give it a name of pop ups like
so and click okay.
And I'm going to double click that class and it would open up for you.
And I am going to remove all the code from the last lecture.
We don't need up to the driver.
Don't get method.
So the first thing I'm going to do is go back to my browser and get that URL and I'm going to copy it
and paste it here.
Like say so that will bring selenium to the pop up page.
And the next thing that I'm going to do is I'm going to find a locator for the trigger pop up button.
So I'm going to inspect the page, click on the, inspect the tool, and then click on the button.
And then if I go to run the box velocity, you'll see I've been given some selectors here.
So I am just going to pick the second one.
And I'm going to go back to the code and I'm going to write Driver the Fine Elements by C.S. Lewis that
I can provide that, select a value and then use dot click like so.
So the next thing I'm going to do.
So this is going to click this button like so and it's going to open up the pop up.
So I need to.
Get the windows handles.
So the windows handles are identifiers that identify the different windows that are open.
So what I'm going to do here is I'm going to create a new string.
So I'm going to call this string.
Main window.
Equals.
Driver.
Dot.
Get window.
Handle like so.
And a semicolon.
So all this is doing is I've created a new stream called Main Window and the driver is going to get
the window handler I.D. of the window that currently has focus of.
So at the time of the test, he's going to have focus of this main window here.
And so it's going to get the window handler I.D., which is a unique I.D. for this particular window.
And it's going to store that I.D. in its main window variable.
So the next thing I'm going to do is I'm going to use something called a set.
And a set in Java is a collection that cannot contain duplicate elements.
So just think of somewhere where I'm going to store a number of values.
So to use a set in Java you need to write set a capital S.
And in pointed brackets and inside these pointy brackets, it's going to be the data type they'll want
to store.
So in my case, I'm going to be storing strings.
And then I need to give this sets a name so I'm going to call it handles like so.
And it's going to equal driver dot get handles so you notices two similar methods here get window handle
and get with the high dos.
So I'm going to be using the while mode.
Yes.
And what that's going to do is going to trawl through all the open windows.
And it's going to get the point of that window and it's going to store it in this so called handle's.
So I need to add a semicolon at the end of it.
And you see that says got an error underneath it.
And the reason for that is we need to import it.
So import one import set java dot util.
And once we do that, the error goes away.
So the next thing I'm going to use is something called an iterator.
And I'd use that by writing i tr at0 the capital on.
And again, I need to state the dates of type.
So I'm going to be iterating through string values.
I need to give it a name.
So I'm going to call this Iterate.
And it's going to equal.
The set so handles.
And then I'm going to use a method called dot iterator.
So iterator is an object that can be used to look for a collection.
So if I hover over it, I too need to import this but make sure to import the java util one and the
error should go away.
So just to explain this iterator again, so the iterator is an object that could be used to loop for
a collection.
And I've created a an object called Iterate and the Equals the handles, which is the name of my sets
that holds the windows handles and is going to iterate through each one of those values in the collection.
So the next thing I'm going to do is use a while loop.
So I'm going to explain while loops in more detail in the Java section of this course.
But for now, I'm just going to write some code and then I'm going to explain it to you.
So I'm going to write while and then in brackets I'm going to use its right object.
And I'm going to use a has next method and I'm going to add some curly brackets.
And inside the wall loop, I'm going to create a new string variable and I'm going to call it child.
Equals its right.
Thoughts next.
Like so.
So just to explain what I'm doing here so far.
So I'm using a while loop and while it will keep on looking at this condition and if it's true, it
will run the code of inside the brackets.
So what I'm using inside the loop is I'm using the it's right object.
To see if it's got a next value.
So if we remember the it's fate object is iterating through the collection called handles and that handles
is stored in all to get windows said it's right object is get in the windows handle during each pass
and what this is saying is if it's got a next value so it's not at the end of the collection, then
run the code inside.
So what I'm doing inside the actual loop is I've created a string called Child and it's going to store
the value of the next handle, the next window handle.
So hopefully this will make more sense as I start typing more code and once I demonstrate it to you.
So the next thing I'm going to use is an if statement.
So if statement takes to see if a condition is true.
So what I'm going to write here is main window.
Dot equals I'm going to use equals ignore case so it doesn't care about the case of the string.
And inside those brackets, I'm going to use the child variable.
And then I'm going to open and have another open and close in brackets.
And inside the if statement I'm going to write driver dots switch to.
Dot window.
And then I'm going to provide the value of that child so that there is being taken from this.
So I am going to name a type of semicolon.
And then the last action is I'm going to use a command called Driver Dot Close.
And what that will do is it will close the tab.
So let me explain once more just just to get you familiar what I'm trying to do here.
So the first thing I'm doing is creating a string called Main Window and what the driver does, it goes
and finds the window handler I.D. for the main window two opens in selenium.
I'm then using a set which is a collection in Java and I'm calling that set handles.
And what is going to be stored in these handles is the driver is going to get the window handles all
at the sides of all the open windows, and it's going to store it in this collection called Handles
on End, use the iterator so it's right to object, which is then going to go through the collection
of those window handles and it's going to go through each one, one at a time.
So then what I use is a wall loop, and this one loop is checking to see if this iterator is at the
end of the collection or if there's a next value.
So if there's a next value, it then runs the code of inside the loop and inside the loop.
I've created a new string variable called Child and it's going to store the next value.
So the next available window value.
So you think about it, if I'm on the main Windows Handle page and there is a another window open which
is the child window, then it's going to store that child window ID in this child variable.
So once that child I.D. has been stored, so the windows handle for the child has been stored here.
I'm using an if statement.
So what is doing is is if the main window.
So if this window here equals ignore case child.
Then it runs this code.
But that's not what we wanted to do.
What we wanted to do is reverse that.
So if not, so if the main window doesn't equal the child I.D., then it runs this code.
Okay.
Because if I didn't have that not symbol down.
What you're saying is if the main window I.D. equals the same as the child one, then Monday's code,
which doesn't make sense because I'm already on the main window and I'm trying to identify the child
window.
But by placing a not sign there.
Now it's saying if the main window doesn't equal the child hand wide, they then run this code.
And we have inside this code itself, the driver is using the switch two methods to switch window focus
to the child window.
And then driver then closes that window.
So we need to do one other thing here.
So once we come out of these brackets, we need to then switch focus back to the to the main window.
And we can do that by doing driver dots.
Switch to that window and a main window.
So once I have switched to the child window and closed it and then want to bring selenium is focus back
to the main window.
So I hope that makes sense.
But let me say this class for now, and I'm going to slow the test down as well, just so you can see
what's happening.
So I'm going to use some fretless leaps
of, say, free seconds just to slow it down a bit so you can see.
And I think I might add one more here as well.
So I'm going to say this class and I'm going to run it.
And let's see what happens.
So did you see what just happened there?
So what that just did that test was it came and clicked this pop up.
And then it switched selenium focus using the windows handle to the child window which is this pop up.
And then what it did in this child window, it closed it and then it brought the focus back to this
main page.
So, for example, if I was to then click the trigger alert button after that test.
So if I wrote here, for example, driver dot find elements by this selector and within that CSA selector
if it.
Get the locater for this alert.
And pace it here and do not click.
So I'm going to prove to you that the focus was moved back.
So first, let me take away this line to show you.
If I try clicking on the alert when I haven't got the main focus on the window, they won't be able
to find this element.
So I'm going to say this class, I'm on it again.
So it's gone to the page at the pop up window.
It's going to close it and now it should trigger the alert, but it hasn't done that.
And the reason why is because I've commented out the line that switches the focus back to this main
page.
And if we look here.
It says no such window.
Target window already closed.
So still focused on the pop up window.
But if I uncomment this line which brings the driver focus back to the main window, it should then
be able to find this button.
So let's try that.
And you can see they click the alert.
That time said, of course, the focus switched back to the main page.
It was able to locate the trigger alert button.
So I can appreciate that was quite a bit that we went through in this lecture and it can be quite difficult
to understand that first.
But the main concept I want you to take away from this is that when we use pop ups, we need to be we
need to switch focus of selenium to that pop up window in order to interact with it.
And once we finish interacting with the pop up window, we need to switch focus back to the main page.
So the way we do that is through the windows handler ideas.
And those ideas are unique guides for each open window.
So don't worry if you're quite still quite confused about what we've just been through.
But the concept is the main thing I want you to take away from this.
And as we progress through discourse and as we go through the Java section, you'll become more familiar
with some of the concepts taught in here, especially to wow and if it while loop and if statements.
So thanks again for watching and I look forward to speaking to you in the next lecture.